.TH NEURAVOX-PROCESS 1 "January 2025" "Version 1.0.0" "Neuravox"
.SH NAME
neuravox process \- Process audio files through the complete pipeline
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B neuravox process
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIFILES\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B process
command runs audio files through the complete processing pipeline:
.IP 1. 3
Detects silence gaps of 25+ seconds and splits audio into chunks
.IP 2. 3
Optimizes chunks as FLAC files (16kHz, mono) for transcription
.IP 3. 3
Transcribes each chunk using the specified AI model
.IP 4. 3
Combines transcripts with timing information
.IP 5. 3
Saves all outputs with comprehensive metadata
.PP
If no files are specified, the command runs in interactive mode, allowing you to select
files from the workspace input directory.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-model " " \fIMODEL\fR
Transcription model to use. Examples: google-gemini, openai-whisper, whisper-base, whisper-turbo.
Default is configured in settings (typically google-gemini).
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-interactive
Run in interactive mode. Shows a table of available files and allows selection.
This is automatically enabled if no files are specified.
.TP
.BR \-\-help
Show help message and exit
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I FILES
Audio files to process. Supports multiple files and wildcards.
Accepted formats: MP3, WAV, FLAC, M4A, OGG, OPUS, WMA, AAC, MP4
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Process files interactively:
.B neuravox process --interactive
.TP
Process specific files:
.B neuravox process audio1.mp3 audio2.wav
.TP
Process with specific model:
.B neuravox process --model openai-whisper podcast.mp3
.TP
Process all MP3 files in input directory:
.B neuravox process ~/audio-workflow/input/*.mp3
.TP
Combine options:
.B neuravox process -m google-gemini -i
.SH OUTPUT
Processed files are organized in the workspace:
.TP
.I ~/neuravox/processed/{file_id}/
Contains audio chunks (chunk_000.flac, chunk_001.flac, etc.) and processing metadata
.TP
.I ~/neuravox/transcribed/{file_id}/
Contains transcripts ({file_id}_transcript.md), chunk transcripts, and metadata files
.SH METADATA FILES
.TP
.I processing_metadata.json
Details about audio processing including chunk timings and parameters
.TP
.I transcription_metadata.json
Transcription details including model used, timestamps, and word count
.TP
.I metadata_manifest.json
Combined metadata linking all generated files
.SH ERROR HANDLING
The command validates:
.IP \(bu 2
File existence and format
.IP \(bu 2
API keys for selected model
.IP \(bu 2
Available disk space
.IP \(bu 2
File size (warns for files >1GB)
.PP
Failed files can be resumed using
.BR neuravox-resume (1)
.SH NOTES
.IP \(bu 2
The 25-second silence threshold is optimized for podcasts and lectures
.IP \(bu 2
Large files may take significant time to process
.IP \(bu 2
Transcription quality varies by model and audio quality
.IP \(bu 2
Network connection required for cloud-based models
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR neuravox (1),
.BR neuravox-status (1),
.BR neuravox-resume (1)
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/yourusername/neuravox/issues