.TH NEURAVOX-TRANSCRIBE 1 "January 2025" "Version 1.0.0" "Neuravox"
.SH NAME
neuravox transcribe \- Transcribe audio files using various AI models
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B neuravox transcribe
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIFILES\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B transcribe
command transcribes audio files using various AI transcription models including
Google Gemini, OpenAI Whisper, and local Whisper models. It can process either
original audio files or previously processed audio chunks.
.PP
If no files are specified, the command runs in interactive mode, allowing you to select
files from the workspace directories.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-model " \fITEXT\fR"
Transcription model to use (google-gemini, openai-whisper, whisper-base, etc.)
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-interactive
Run in interactive mode. Shows a table of available files and allows selection.
This is automatically enabled if no files are specified.
.TP
.BR \-\-chunks
Process chunks separately instead of full files
.TP
.BR \-\-timestamps
Include timestamps in the transcription output
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-config " \fIPATH\fR"
Configuration file path
.TP
.BR \-\-help
Show help message and exit
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I FILES
Audio files to transcribe. Supports multiple files and wildcards.
Accepted formats: MP3, WAV, FLAC, M4A, OGG, OPUS, WMA, AAC, MP4
.SH AVAILABLE MODELS
.TP
.B google-gemini
Google Gemini 2.0 Flash model (requires GOOGLE_API_KEY)
.TP
.B openai-whisper
OpenAI Whisper API (requires OPENAI_API_KEY)
.TP
.B whisper-base
Local Whisper base model
.TP
.B whisper-turbo
Local Whisper turbo model
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Transcribe files interactively:
.B neuravox transcribe --interactive
.TP
Transcribe specific files with a model:
.B neuravox transcribe --model google-gemini audio1.mp3 audio2.wav
.TP
Transcribe chunks with timestamps:
.B neuravox transcribe --chunks --timestamps --model openai-whisper
.TP
Use custom config:
.B neuravox transcribe --config /path/to/config.yaml audio.mp3
.SH OUTPUT
Transcribed files are organized in the workspace:
.TP
.I ~/workspace/transcribed/{file_id}/
Contains transcripts and transcription metadata
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B GOOGLE_API_KEY
Required for Google Gemini model
.TP
.B OPENAI_API_KEY
Required for OpenAI Whisper model
.SH NOTES
.IP \(bu 2
Local Whisper models do not require API keys
.IP \(bu 2
Network connection required for cloud-based models
.IP \(bu 2
Transcription quality varies by model and audio quality
.IP \(bu 2
Large files may take significant time to transcribe
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR neuravox (1),
.BR neuravox-process (1),
.BR neuravox-pipeline (1)
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/alikebrahim/neuravox/issues